[DOC] Managing Strimzi: Tuning producer configuration (#3457)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/managing/con-producer-config-properties.adoc

// This module is included in the following files:
//
// assembly-client-config.adoc

[id='con-producer-config-properties-{context}']
= Kafka producer configuration tuning

Use a minimum producer configuration with optional properties that are tailored to specific uses cases.

Adjusting your configuration to maximize throughput might increase latency or vice versa.
You will need to experiment and tune your producer configuration to get the balance you need.

== Minimum producer configuration

Connection and serializer properties are required for every producer.
Generally, it is good practice to add a client id for tracking,
and use compression on the producer to reduce batch sizes in requests.

In this minimal configuration:

> * The order of messages in a partition is not guaranteed

Reviewer: This is the opposite of the statement that is always mentioned when you talk about messages order in Kafka.
I guess you are saying that based on retries and inflight requests (so retries > 0 and inflight > 1 can drive to change the order) but I think that we should be clear about that otherwise we can confuse people reading since the beginning. Maybe we could say "The order of messages can be guaranteed at partition level only" or something like that @tombentley wdyt?

Reviewer: I agree on the fact that the statement is wrong but I still think that "The order of messages can be guaranteed at partition level only" much better than saying "is not guaranteed" or at least we should add that it's not guaranteed if not configured in the proper way. I thought that my "can be" could open the possibility and the understanding that it can be guaranteed if configured to do so. 
Btw it's not just about our doc ... maybe every developer in the world having a Kafka presentation slides deck should change his slides at this point (me included).

Author: I think the section is clear that this is referring to the basic config. That is, before we look at the config that adds the guarantees

Reviewer: Ok, so ... "In this basic configuration" ...should be the key. I really hope that other readers will pay more attention than me :-)

* The acknowledgment of messages reaching the broker does not guarantee durability

[source,shell,subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# ...
bootstrap.servers=localhost:9092 <1>
key.serializer=org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.StringSerializer <2>
value.serializer=org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.StringSerializer <3>
client.id=my-client <4>

> compression.type=gzip <5>

Author: I changed to _Basic producer configuration_

# ...
----
<1> (Required) Tells the producer to connect to a Kafka cluster using a _host:port_ bootstrap server address for a Kafka broker.
The producer uses the address to discover and connect to all brokers in the cluster.
Use a comma-separated list to specify two or three addresses in case a server is down, but it’s not necessary to provide a list of all the brokers in the cluster.
<2> (Required) Serializer to transform the message keys to bytes prior to them being sent to a broker.

> <3> (Required) Serializer to transform message values to bytes prior to them being sent to a broker.

Author: Changed to _the key of each message_ and _the value of each message_

<4> (Optional) The logical name for the client, which is used in logs and metrics to identify the source of a request.
<5> (Optional) The codec for compressing messages, which are sent and stored in compressed format and then decompressed when reaching a consumer.
Compression is useful for improving throughput and reducing the load on storage, but might not be suitable for low latency applications where the cost of compression or decompression is prohibitive.

== Data durability

You can apply greater data durability, to minimize the likelihood that messages are lost, using message delivery acknowledgments.

----
# ...
acks=all <1>
# ...
----

<1> Specifying `acks=all` forces a partition leader to replicate messages to all followers before
acknowledging that the message request was successfully received.
Because of the additional checks, `acks=all` increases the latency between the producer sending a message and receiving acknowledgment.

> In addition to using `acks=all`, you must configure the topics receiving the messages to have more than one in-sync replica.

Author: Better

A typical starting point is to have a topic replication factor of 3, with two in-sync replicas on other brokers.
In this configuration, the producer can continue unaffected if a single broker is unavailable.
If a second broker becomes unavailable, the producer won’t receive acknowledgments and won’t be able to produce more messages.

.Topic configuration to support `acks=all`
----
# ...
min.insync.replicas=2 <1>
# ...
----
<1> Use `2` in-sync replicas. The default is `1`.

== Ordered delivery

Idempotent producers avoid duplicates as messages are delivered exactly once.
IDs and sequence numbers are assigned to messages to ensure the order of delivery, even in the event of failure.
If you are using `acks=all` for data consistency, enabling idempotency makes sense for ordered delivery.

.Ordered delivery with idempotency
----
# ...
enable.idempotence=true <1>
max.in.flight.requests.per.connection=5 <2>
acks=all <3>
retries=2147483647 <4>
# ...
----

> <1> Set to `true`.

Author: Set to `true` to enable the idempotent producer.

> <2> Specify the number of allowed in-flight requests to a maximum of 5.

Reviewer: 5 is already the default

<3> Set to `all`.
<4> Set the number of attempts to resend a failed message request.

If the performance cost is too great, and you are not using `acks=all`,

> set the number of in-flight (unacknowledged) requests to 1 to preserve ordering.

Reviewer 2: I don't think makes sense ... setting in-flight messages to 1 will slow down the producer. So it does not fit for me with the _If the performance cost is too great_. Maybe something like _If performance is not the main priority_ or something like that?

Author: Yes, it's related to the next example.
I've changed to:

If you are not using `acks=all` and idempotency because of the performance cost, set the number of in-flight (unacknowledged) requests to 1 to preserve ordering.

Otherwise, a situation is possible where _Message-A_ fails only to succeed after _Message-B_ was already written to the broker.

.Ordered delivery without idempotency
----
# ...
enable.idempotence=false <1>
max.in.flight.requests.per.connection=1 <2>
retries=2147483647
# ...
----

> <1> Set to `false`.

Reviewer: Disable idempotent producer

Author: Set to `false` to disable the idempotent producer.

Message compression adds latency in the producer (CPU time spent compressing the messages),
but makes requests (and potentially disk writes) smaller, which can increase throughput.
Whether compression is worthwhile, and the best compression to use, will depend on the messages being sent.
Compression happens on the thread which calls `KafkaProducer.send()`,
so if the latency of this method matters for your application you should consider using more threads.

Pipelining (`max.in.flight.requests.per.connection`)::
Pipelining means sending more requests before the response to a previous request has been received.
In general more pipelining means better throughput, up to a threshold at which other effects,
such as worse batching, start to counteract the effect on throughput.

.Lowering latency

Producers scaled to produce a high rate of requests might cause queues in the Kafka cluster and increase latency.

Use a buffer and add a small delay to reduce the number of requests to topics from producers that are not contributing a large number of messages.
You can set the delay in conjunction with a maximum batch size, so the delay only applies if the batch size is not reached earlier.

> NOTE: If the system fails, there is a risk of unsent data in the buffer being lost.

Reviewer: While I think this description could be useful to people who don't know and would like to know how a producer works internally, I am also thinking that we are providing too many details about Kafka in the Strimzi documentation that is more about deploying/handling Kafka not maybe ... using it?

> NOTE: If the system fails, there is a risk of unsent data in the buffer being lost.

Author: I've added but it seems a bit disconnected with the config that comes after. I've joined by adding _Look at the configuration for batching and buffering for improving latency._ after this new section for now

> NOTE: If the system fails, there is a risk of unsent data in the buffer being lost.

Author: I've moved the note under durability as a placeholder

----
# ...
linger.ms=0 <1>
batch.size=16384 <2>
buffer.memory=33554432 <3>
# ...
----
<1> The `linger` property adds a delay in milliseconds so that larger batches of messages are accumulated and sent in a request. The defaullt is `0'.`

> <2> If a maximum `batch.size` in bytes is used, a request is sent when the maximum is reached, or messages have been queued for longer than `linger.ms` (whichever comes sooner).

Reviewer: in the above example, I don't think we are explaining well the balance between linger time and batch size. I mean, with above example, the message will be sent immediately because linger is 0, right?
If we want to explain better, maybe we should see linger to 100 ms for example and saying that messages are sent when 100 ms are reached without filling the batch size completely, or if you fill the entire batch size in less than 100 ms. @tombentley wdyt?

Reviewer: sorry @tombentley AFAIK piggy-backing could mean delaying when talking about packet transmission not anticipating as you are describing. So what do you mean by piggy-backing in this case?

Reviewer 3: We're sending some messages batches to a broker anyway, so we may as well add some partially full batch destined for the same broker. In a way it's not unrelated to the acknowledgement case you describe. In that case an ack is delayed so that we can ack two or more data frames with a single ack frame. TBH, I don't know how standardised my usage is here.

Reviewer: Thanks for sharing this! ... but I see two possible different behaviors.
1. More partitions belong to the same broker. One batch for a partition is full and it's ready to be sent but ... the producer sends even the batches for other partitions belonging to the same broker even if they are not totally filled. In this case, we are anticipating acks.
2. More partitions belong to the same broker. One batch for a partition is full and it's ready to be sent but ... producer waits for the other batches belonging to the other partitions (but still on the same broker) to be filled before sending all of them. In this case, we are delaying acks.

Author: I changed the example to `linger.ms=100`

And we leave out the idea of piggy-backing here?

Reviewer: I would leave it out, anyway it's not still clear how piggy-backing works in the producer.

Adding the delay allows batches to accumulate messages up to the batch size.
<3> The buffer size must be at least as big as the batch size, and be able to accommodate buffering, compression and in-flight requests.

.Increasing throughput

Improve throughput of your message requests by adjusting the maximum time to wait before a message is delivered and completes a send request.

> If you have a large number of topics to write to, you can also lower the time it takes to pick up topic metadata changes and reduce the time to discover new brokers or partitions.

Author: Removed from the intro and example

> You can also direct messages to a specified partition by writing a custom partitioner to replace the default.

Author: Another time :-)

retries=2147483647 <4>
# ...
----
<1> Set to `true` to enable the idempotent producer.
<2> With idempotent delivery the number of in-flight requests may be greater than 1 while still providing the message ordering guarantee. The default is 5 in-flight requests.
<3> Set `acks` to `all`.
<4> Set the number of attempts to resend a failed message request.

If you are not using `acks=all` and idempotency because of the performance cost,
set the number of in-flight (unacknowledged) requests to 1 to preserve ordering.
Otherwise, a situation is possible where _Message-A_ fails only to succeed after _Message-B_ was already written to the broker.

.Ordered delivery without idempotency
----
# ...
enable.idempotence=false <1>
max.in.flight.requests.per.connection=1 <2>
retries=2147483647
# ...
----
<1> Set to `false` to disable the idempotent producer.
<2> Set the number of in-flight requests to exactly `1`.

== Reliability guarantees

Idempotence is useful for exactly once writes to a single partition.
Transactions, when used with idempotence, allow exactly once writes across multiple partitions.

Transactions guarantee that messages using the same transactional ID are produced once,

> and either _all_ are successfully written to the log or _none_ of them are.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and either _all_ are successfully written to the respective logs or _none_ of them are.
```

In general more pipelining means better throughput, up to a threshold at which other effects,
such as worse batching, start to counteract the effect on throughput.

.Lowering latency

When your application calls `KafkaProducer.send()` the messages are:

* Processed by any interceptors
* Serialized
* Assigned to a partition
* Compressed
* Added to a batch of messages in a per-partition queue

At which point the `send()` method returns.
So the time `send()` is blocked is determined by:

* The time spent in the interceptors, serializers and partitioner
* The compression algorithm used
* The time spent waiting for a buffer to use for compression

Batches will remain in the queue until one of the following occurs:

* The batch is full (according to `batch.size`)
* The delay introduced by `linger.ms` has passed
* The sender is about to send message batches for other partitions to the same broker, and it is possible to add this batch too
* The producer is being flushed or closed

Look at the configuration for batching and buffering to mitigate the impact of `send()` blocking on latency.

----
# ...
linger.ms=100 <1>
batch.size=16384 <2>
buffer.memory=33554432 <3>
# ...
----

> <1> The `linger` property adds a delay in milliseconds so that larger batches of messages are accumulated and sent in a request. The defaullt is `0'.`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<1> The `linger` property adds a delay in milliseconds so that larger batches of messages are accumulated and sent in a request. The default is `0'.`
```
